So now if I go to the home, I go to order.
If you look at the URL, it says /order.
Do we have that order file on the server?
No.
We can just fake the URL.
That's history.pushState.
You can parse anything here.
And that's what you will see in the URL.
You can even parse I will change this,
something like this,
something/something-else/ and
then the route.
And that's what you're
going to see in the URL.
So, look at the URL now.
Something/something-else.
You are just faking.
And it works.
The relative will take whatever
string we pass as the URL.
So it's actually interesting.
So what do we need to do?
Well, we need to use again,
with an obstruction layer on top of
this we can have an array of routes and
loop through an array but
I wanna keep things simple here.
So I can just make a switch
over that route and say, okay,
let's see if it's the forward slash or
else I will order.
So these two first.
I'm gonna do the break
because this is JavaScript.
And what I need to do is to, for
example, do something with the DOM.
Remember, we need to hide and show or
we need to inject new elements.
I will pick for this part of
the workshop to use the technique of
removing the old page and
injecting the new page, okay.
So we're going to remove from the DOM and
put into the DOM.
Where in the HTML for
that I have an empty main element.
That looks pretty good for that, okay.
So I'm going to take that main element and
based on the URL I'm going to inject
DOM elements or remove DOM elements.
It makes sense?
So what I need after the switch, okay?
So after the switch,
what I need is probably to add,
take that main element.
And I'm going to call appendChild
with the element that the switch
has decided to render.
Make sense?
I'm probably going to refactor this
as we are adding more features, but
that's kind of the idea.
And because of that,
maybe we want to create a variable here.
We can call this page element.
We start with null.
And then we append over the main element,
that page element.
So what we need to do is to create
different elements based on the URL.
For now, the first part will be to just
create, for example titles.
How to create an element in HTML,
document.Create.
Create element receives the tag name.
So I'm just creating an h1
that lives only in memory.
Just in memory.
But I can take that element and
change its text content and
I can say,
this is the homepage or the menu.
And for the order I can use something
similar but say this is the order,
your order, we will replace that
later with something better.
Is it done?
Not yet, and
you will see the problem that we have,
that is a pretty common problem
when you're doing VanillaJS.
So that's why one asked
to get into the problem.
So if we try this we can
see something like that,
it says Menu, and if I go to the cart,
it says Your Order,
if I go back here Menu, Your Order, Menu.
This is a pretty common
problem in VanillaJS.
When you are injecting new elements,
what's the problem?
We are not removing the previous one.
Makes sense?
So we need to clear the container
before actually injecting new content.
There are two ways to do that.
The quick and dirty way,
okay, and the other one.
So for this particular example,
both will work.
I will show you both anyway.
Okay, so one way is before appending this
child, clear this out, the quick and
dirty way is we can take the main and
change its inner HTML.
Be careful with capital H-T-M and
L, and just say empty string.
This is a quick and
dirty way to delete everything in
the main, Element.
Why it's quick and dirty?
Yeah, because it's a string, okay.
If we have event listeners we are not
caring what's inside, and yeah.
What is the other way?
Well, the other way that we have is
that we could take the main element and
there is a property that
will get us the child nodes.
And also, we have children.
What's the difference between
childNodes and children?
Looks similar.
Well, children will give you
an HTML collection, and childNodes,
it's a NodeList of words blah, blah.
What's the difference?
ChildNodes will also give you comments
as objects and text assumption.
For example, if I have here,
I have a node.
It's the empty text.
Even the newline character.
So I'm talking about the difference
about this and this.
Here I do have a node inside the list,
like a lot of spaces and characters.
So I don't want that.
I just want DOM elements so that's why
we use children and not childNodes.
So anyway, you say children and sub
zero if we have one, so we should check
if we have one, is the first DOM
element and we can ask for removal.
Again, just showing you how
to live different ways.
And by the way, can you see that we
are making the same inquiry twice.
Well, we can cache that.
How?
Creating a variable or a constant.
That is not really a constant,
it's an immutable variable, but that's for
another day.
So we do something like this, and
that will improve
a little bit performance.
For this example, it's not a big deal, and
some browsers are also optimizing this.
So it's not going to change too much.
But now at least when we are changing
the URLs, now it looks a little better.
We still have a problem that what
happens if it goes to default,
because I don't have,
like this will be null.
So maybe we should check if we do
have a page element to render.
If we don't have a page to render,
it's because the router
didn't find a valid route.
There are two options.
Do nothing, send an error to the console,
or create a client-side 404 page.
That will be another component say,
hey there is an error,
that URL does not exist.
Okay, one more small thing.
After appending the child
it's a good idea when
you're doing routers to set the scrollX.
And scrollY to zero.
Why?
Because if not, when you have large
pages with lots of content and
you are scrolling the page,
when you change the route you will
still be at that scroll position, okay?
And we wanna go to the top,
both horizontally and vertically.